XIAOTITLE Apple computer sells for $374,500 at auction - New York Daily News.
The Apple I is the first Apple computer made by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak… RYAN GORMAN Friday, June 15, 2012 An Apple computer that was hand-built in 1976 sold for $374,500 at a Sotheby’s auction Friday morning.
The Apple I set off a fierce battle between two bidders that drove up the price to more than twice that initial upper estimate of $180,000.
The Apple I was constructed by Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak and was the first ready-made personal computer when it went on sale in 1976.
Only six are known to be in working condition, said the auction house.
It runs the BASIC operating system.
The Apple I was not cheap at the time, selling for $666.66 and coming without a monitor, keyboard, case or power supply.
The one sold at auction came with the original user’s manual as well as one on the BASIC programming language, Sotheby s said.
Sotheby s said the computer went to a phone bidder.
The auction house has not disclosed the winner s name.
When announced by Wozniak at the Homebrew Computer Club in 1976, the Apple I was ignored by everyone but Paul Terrell, who owned a chain of stores called Byte Shop, according to Sotheby’s. Wozniak created an interface that allowed users to type letters on a keyboard  instead of a stupid, cryptic front panel with a bunch of lights and switches,  Wozniak told the computer club while announcing the Apple I s invention, according to Sotheby’s. Terrell ordered 50 units, which were hand assembled by Wozniak.
About 200 were constructed.
The rest, as they say, is history.
Steve Jobs, the iconic CEO who co-founded Apple with Wozniak, died last October after a long fight against cancer.
Following his death, Apple fans have driven a hunger for the company’s historical artifacts that auction houses have been happy to satisfy.
Also on Friday, Sotheby’s fetched $27,500 for a hand-written note Jobs wrote while he was working at Atari in 1974.
The note includes diagrams and drawings for his suggestions on how to improve the arcade game World Cup.
Last December, the original founding papers for Apple were sold at auction for $1.6 million, Sotheby s said.
