XIAOTITLE Steve Jobs Biography - Facts, Birthday, Life Story - Biography.com.
Steve Jobs was born February 24, 1955, to two University of Wisconsin graduate students who gave him up for adoption.
Smart but directionless, Jobs experimented with different pursuits before starting Apple Computers with Stephen Wozniak in the Jobs  family garage.
Apple s revolutionary products, which include the iPod, iPhone and iPad, are now seen as dictating the evolution of modern technology.
I would trade all of my technology for an afternoon with Socrates.
With iPod, listening to music will never be the same again.
Steven Paul Jobs was born on February 24, 1955, to Joanne Simpson and Abdulfattah  John  Jandali, two University of Wisconsin graduate students who gave their unnamed son up for adoption.
His father, Abdulfattah Jandali, was a Syrian political science professor and his mother, Joanne Simpson, worked as a speech therapist.
Shortly after Steve was placed for adoption, his biological parents married and had another child, Mona Simpson . It was not until Jobs was 27 that he was able to uncover information on his biological parents.
As an infant, Steven was adopted by Clara and Paul Jobs and named Steven Paul Jobs.
Clara worked as an accountant and Paul was a Coast Guard veteran and machinist.
The family lived in Mountain View within California s Silicon Valley.
As a boy, Jobs and his father would work on electronics in the family garage.
Paul would show his son how to take apart and reconstruct electronics, a hobby which instilled confidence, tenacity, and mechanical prowess in young Jobs.
While Jobs has always been an intelligent and innovative thinker, his youth was riddled with frustrations over formal schooling.
In elementary school he was a prankster whose fourth grade teacher needed to bribe him to study.
Jobs tested so well, however, that administrators wanted to skip him ahead to high school—a proposal his parents declined.
After he did enroll in high school, Jobs spent his free time at Hewlett-Packard.
It was there that he befriended computer club guru Steve Wozniak.
Wozniak was a brilliant computer engineer, and the two developed great respect for one another.
After high school, Jobs enrolled at Reed College in Portland, Oregon.
Lacking direction, he dropped out of college after six months and spent the next 18 months dropping in on creative classes.
Jobs later recounted how one course in calligraphy developed his love of typography.
In 1974, Jobs took a position as a video game designer with Atari.
Several months later he left Atari to find spiritual enlightenment in India, traveling the continent and experimenting with psychedelic drugs.
In 1976, when Jobs was just 21, he and Wozniak started Apple Computers.
The duo started in the Jobs family garage, and funded their entrepreneurial venture after Jobs sold his Volkswagen bus and Wozniak sold his beloved scientific calculator.
Jobs and Wozniak are credited with revolutionizing the computer industry by democratizing the technology and making the machines smaller, cheaper, intuitive, and accessible to everyday consumers.
The two conceived a series of user-friendly personal computers that they initially marketed for $666.66 each.
Their first model, the Apple I, earned them $774,000.
Three years after the release of their second model, the Apple II, sales increased 700 percent to $139 million dollars.
