XIAOTITLE Google Unveils Tablet Computer, Home-Entertainment Device | Fox Business.
( GOOG ) revealed a new tablet computer, home-entertainment device and Android mobile-software platform Wednesday, adding new technology to its arsenal as it gears up for further battle with Apple Inc.
( AAPL ) and others.
During a presentation at the Internet-search company s annual developer conference, Google showed its Nexus 7 tablet computer, which features a seven-inch screen and camera, and is designed to display books and other media available on Google s Play service.
The tablet computer was developed together with Asustek Computer Inc.
(2357.TW) and is  an ideal device for reading books,  Google engineering director Chris Yerga said during a demonstration.
The Nexus 7 will be available for $199, significantly less than the cheapest-available Apple iPad tablet computer and on par with Amazon.com Inc. s ( AMZN ) Kindle Fire device.
The Google tablet computer is available for order on Google Play and will ship in mid-July, Google said.
Google also revealed a device that can be used to stream media such as movies, TV shows and music at home, called the Nexus Q.
The Nexus Q will be available for $299, Google said.
It is designed to stream entertainment from Play and Google s YouTube video service.
It is also designed to compete with other home-entertainment streaming devices, such as Apple TV.
A new version of Google s Android software, dubbed Jelly Bean, was also disclosed Wednesday.
This software will be released starting in the middle of next month, the company said.
Google demonstrated new features available in the software, such as voice-activated typing on a device and audio responses to verbal Internet searches.
Google said some 400 million Android devices now have been activated.
The new release of the software is  the fastest and smoothest version of Android yet,  Google Android Product Management Director Hugo Barra said.
Google develops Android according to an open-source model that makes use of outside engineering and makes the technology available free to device makers.
While Android has rapidly gained in popularity, it has also attracted a number of intellectual property lawsuits, including litigation filed by Apple alleging patent infringement.
However, thanks to its recent purchase of device-maker and long-time partner Motorola Mobility, Google is expected to take an even more hands-on approach to tailoring its Android software to related hardware.
Apple long has used a model that includes both in-house software and hardware engineering in tandem as it has developed its popular iPad.
According to data from market-research company IDC, Apple held a 68% share of the worldwide tablet-computer market in the first quarter of this year, well ahead of Samsung Electronics Co.
(SSNHY, 005930.SE) and Amazon.com--each of which have developed their tablet computers based on Google s Android software.
While Google s announcements of a new tablet, home-entertainment device and Android software were expected, company co-founder Sergey Brin made a splash at the conference later in the morning with a demonstration of Google s  Project Glass  technology, which embeds a computer display in a pair of eyeglasses.
A gaggle of skydivers wearing the glasses jumped from a zeppelin hovering above the conference in San Francisco, landed on the roof and made their way to the stage to join Mr. Brin.
The co-founder then disclosed that the glasses would be available for pre-order to attendees for $1,500 a pair, and would ship early next year.
Google shares were up 0.8% at $569.13 in afternoon trading, Apple shares were up 0.3% at $573.54 and Amazon.com shares were down 0.8% at $223.82.
Write to John Letzing at john.letzing@dowjones.com.
