XIAOTITLE Apple fruit nutrition facts and health benefits.
Apple fruit nutrition facts Delicious and crunchy apple fruit is one of the most popular fruit favored by health conscious, fitness freaks who believe in “health is wealth.” This wonderful fruit packed with rich phyto-nutrients that in the true sense are indispensable for optimal health.
Apples in a store.
domestica) Apples are obtained from the medium sized tree belonging to the rosaceae family.
Scientific name: Malus domestica.
The apple tree is originated in the mineral rich mountain ranges of Kazakhstan, and is now being cultivated in many parts of the world.
Apple fruit features oval or pear shape; and the outer skin has different colors depending upon the cultivar type.
Internally, the juicy pulp has off-white to cream in color and has mix of mild sweet and tart taste.
The seeds are inedible because of their bitter taste.
Several hundred varieties of apples grown in the US and worldwide either for just eating or as a desert fruit to cooking or baking in many recipes.
Apples are low in calories; 100 g of fresh fruit slices provide only 50 calories.
The fruits are however, contain no saturated fats or cholesterol; but rich in dietary fiber, which helps, prevent absorption of dietary LDL cholesterol in the gut.
The dietary fibers also help protect the mucous membrane of the colon from exposure to toxic substances by binding to cancer causing chemicals in the colon.
Apples are rich in antioxidant phyto-nutrients flavonoids and polyphenols.
The total measured anti-oxidant strength (ORAC value) of 100 g apple fruit is 5900 TE.
The important flavonoids in apples are quercetin, epicatechin, and procyanidin B2 . Apples are also good in tartaric acid that gives tart flavor to them.
These compounds help body protect from deleterious effects of free radicals.
In addition, apple fruit is a good source of B-complex vitamins such as riboflavin, thiamin, and pyridoxine (vitamin B-6).
Together these vitamins help as co-factors for enzymes in metabolism as well as in various synthetic functions inside the body.
Apple also contains small amount of minerals like potassium, phosphorus, and calcium.
Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids helps controlling heart rate and blood pressure; thus counters the bad influences of sodium.
Selection and Storage Fresh apples are readily available in the stores all around the season.
Choose fresh, bright, firm textured apples with rich flavor.
Avoid fruits with pressure marks over their surface as they indicate underlying mottled of pulp.
Fresh apples can be kept at room temperature for few days and stored in refrigerator for two to three weeks.
Wash them in clean running cold water before use to remove any surface dust and pesticide/fungicide residues.
Preparation and Serving tips Wash apples thoroughly in the running water to remove any surface dust, insecticide/fungicide sprays.
Remove the top end using paring knife and cut it into two equal halves.
Take out centrally placed small seeds.
Slice the fruit into desirable cubes or pieces.
Apple fruit sections.
Eat apple fruit as they are with skin to get maximum health benefits.
Sliced apple turns brown (enzymatic brownish discoloration) on exposure to air due to conversion in iron form from ferrous oxide to ferric oxide . If you have to serve them sliced, rinse slices in water added with few drops of fresh lemon .
Cloudy apple juice is a good drink with dinner.
Apple fruit is also used in the preparation of fruit jam, pie, and fruit salad.
Safety profile Good yeild demands close attention and suprevision of apple crop.
According to the environmental-working group reports, apple fruit is one of the most heavily pesticide-contaminated produce.
The most common pesticides found on apple are organo-phosphorous and organo-chloride pesticides like Permethrin and DDT.
Therefore, it is recommended to wash the fruit thoroughly before use.
  -Back to Fruit nutrition from Apple fruit .   Visit here for an impressive list of all variety of fruits with complete illustrations of their nutrition facts and health benefits.
