XIAOTITLE Apple Fruit - Information   Facts about the Wonder Fruit Apple.
Most of us are familiar with the tale that originated from Switzerland of William Tell when an Apple was placed on the head of his son and Tell was ordered to split the apple with his arrow or lose his son.
Of course Tell succeeded in piercing the apple into two and saved his son.
Again we have heard of Adam s apple.
The story goes that in the Garden of Eden, Adam ate a piece of the forbidden fruit that got stuck in his throat, and thus the term Adam s Apple.
An Adam s apple sometimes looks like a small, rounded apple just under the skin in the front of the throat, usually seen in boys.
Now let s have some interesting facts about Apples and how they aid in good health.
The Greek and Roman mythology refer to apples as symbols of love and beauty but Apple Fruit contain vitamins like Vitamin C, Beta-Carotene, iron and potassium etc., The Vitamin C content may not be as good as Oranges but apples have very high mineral contents, pectins, malic acid which are good in normalizing the intestines.
Apple Fruit is good for treatment of anaemia, dysentery, heart disease, headache, eye disorders, kidney stones and promotes vigour and vitality.
Apple juice is good to overcome a liverish feeling, further, apples are unlikely to cause allergic reactions and are excellent means of providing essential fluids to the body.
A popular saying about apples is that apples combine the best attributes of something old and something new.
A number of components in apples, have been found in studies to lower blood cholesterol with a reduced risk of ischemic heart disease, stroke, prostrate cancer, type II diabetes and asthma.
A new study whose findings have been published in the Journal of Alzheimer s Disease is sure to bring cheers for people suffering from this strange disease.
This study suggests that eating and drinking apples and apple juice, in conjunction with a balanced diet, can protect the brain from the effects of oxidative stress and that we should eat such antioxidant-rich foods.
Apples are also good for treatment of the Acid reflux condition also called gerd (gastro esophageal reflux disease).
It is well said that we should have in our diet apart from vegetables, fresh coloured fruits like Yellow Apples, Green Apples, Red Apples etc., which are easily available considering that we have some of the best Apples coming from places like Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh etc., Of course imported apples like Washington apples and Australian apples are available at big departmental stores.
Green Apples - Good for strong bones and teeth, aids in vision, anti cancer properties.
Yellow Apples - Good for heart and eyes, immune system, reduce risk of some cancers.
Red Apples - Good for heart, Memory function, lower risk of some cancers and to maintain urinary tract health.
So lets seize the opportunity to grab as much apples as we can in our diet for good health for the whole family.
A total of 94 users are reading this article.
