XIAOTITLE Why Fruit Trees Fail to Produce - Why Fruit Trees Fail to Produce: Local.
Not long ago I took my pickup in to find out why it was dripping oil.
A rear main seal was leaking, which was easily diagnosed and repaired.
Diagnosing plant problems is often not that simple, and a remedy, if possible, is even more complicated.
I’m occasionally asked why a fruit tree isn’t producing.
It’s a simple question, but there could be one or more causes.
This article will focus on apple and pear.
    Trees need to be a certain age before they’ll bear fruit.
Apple trees purchased from a nursery will begin bearing fruit in 2 to 5 years, and pear likely won’t produce fruit until the tree is 4 to 6 years old.
    All plants need sufficient sunlight to grow.
It’s critical to plant trees in areas that receive as much sunlight as possible.
Trees not receiving sufficient sunlight will continue growing, but there will not be adequate energy to produce flower buds and ultimately, fruit.
    You may only need or want one tree.
However, apple and pear trees require cross-pollination—pollen from a flower of one tree must be transferred to a flower on another tree.
Consequently, it’s necessary to plant two of each tree.
However, don’t plant the same variety because they won’t cross pollinate.
Some apple varieties are not suitable as a pollenizer.
For pears, with one exception, any two varieties that bloom at the same time will provide the necessary pollen.
There is reliable information on the Internet indicating which varieties are suitable for achieving adequate pollination.
    Depending on growth stage, buds and flowers can withstand some spring sub-freezing temperatures.
Damage to blossoms is generally greater when temperatures are unseasonably warm early in the spring followed by a frost.
Whether blossoms freeze is not only determined by temperature, but also duration of freezing temperatures.
Here’s a good web site that shows stages of bloom and expected damage by various temperatures, http://extension.usu.edu/files/publications/factsheet/pub  5191779.pdf .
    Avid gardeners love to care for their plants, and sometimes this care has undesirable results.
Too much nitrogen can cause excessive vegetative growth, thus delaying fruit production.
Trees growing more than about 18 inches a year are likely receiving too much nitrogen fertilizer, so the amount should be reduced.
    Some people are perplexed because their fruit trees produce well one year, but little to nothing the next.
This every-other-year production is prominent in apple, but also occurs in pear.
The fruit produced next year will come from flower buds produced this year.
If a tree produces too many fruits, it will not have energy for flower bud production resulting in no fruit the following year.
Remedy this by thinning to one apple or pear about every six inches along each branch.
Thin the fruit about 4 to 6 weeks after full bloom.
William H. Bohl is Extension Educator with University of Idaho located in Blackfoot, 785-8060 or wbohl@uidaho.edu .
