XIAOTITLE Hood River County Fruit Loop | Heirloom Apple Days.
Have you heard the stories of older relatives—or do you remember yourself—when apple pies and applesauce were made from varieties such as Spitzenburg, Rome Beauty, Newtown Pippin, Winter Banana, and Ortley?
They were delicious eaten right off the tree, too.
Those are all apples now known as “heirloom” or “Classic” varieties.
They can trace their heritage back 100 years or more, may not store as well as some of the commercial varieties, may be more susceptible to disease or pests, or may bruise more easily.
But they taste so good!
Their individual flavors and aromas have been compared to those of different vintages of wine.
Limited supplies of heirloom apples are available, and while truck and railcar-loads of these apples may not be shipped out of the valley, they are being celebrated—and are available—at locations all along the Hood River County Fruit Loop during Heirloom Apple Days.
See below for a list of last year s activities.
Pumpkin Funland™ at Rasmussen Farms October 1–November 11 Free admission.
Visit a unique world of more than 50 whimsical scenes created from pumpkins, gourds, and other farm items.
Halloween maze for kids 4-10 years old and THEMED CORN MAZE-every year a different story for all ages.
U-pick pumpkins of every size and shape.
Misti Alpaca Trunk Show at Foothills Yarn   Fiber October 10-28 With four generations of alpaca expertise in Peru, Misti International brings North American knitters and crocheters a large color and weight yarn selection for one of the softest fibers on earth.  Come see equisite garments hand knit from Misti alpaca yarns.  While you re here, meet our newest alpaca babies.
Swiss-German  Edelweiss Day  at Mt. View Orchards Inc   Fruit Stand October 27 11-4 This festival has become a tradition on our farm.  Live music, hayrides, Swiss recipes, Swiss apples, kraut, Swiss sausage, hot dogs, bratzelies, chocolate pear fudge.  Good food!  Rain or shine we will have this party.  Squeeze your own cider using heirloom apples.
Hard Cider Days at Aubert Fruit Company October 27-28 Hard cider tasting with Blue Mountain Cider Company.
Enjoy a new twist on an old farm tradition.
10th Annual Heirloom Apple Tasting at Kiyokawa Family Orchards October 27-28 Over 75 varieties of apples, more than two dozen varieties of Asian and European pears, and more than 200 years of cultivation.  Unique flavors provide an array of fresh and baked applications.  Obscure assortments will pique the curiosity of all inspired to participate.  Spend the day and take home history.
Apple Valley s Heirloom Apple Butter Festival October 27-28 Come stir the pot!
We’re making apple butter the old fashioned way with a copper kettle over an open fire.
We’ll be serving fried biscuits with apple and pear butter!
Last weekend for BBQ!
Cherry-wood smoked ribs, pulled pork and chicken sandwiches, pear coleslaw, and cider baked beans.
Apple Cider Overboard at Packer Orchards and Bakery October 27-28 We love apples and pears too!
Many varieties of heirloom fruit available.  Enjoy fresh-pressed cider, hot apple pie sundaes, apple cinnamon rolls, and more.  The bakery is over-flowing with the warm smells of freshly baked pies and cookies.  Fall in love with home made caramel apple ice cream.
Cider Days Celebration at Draper Girls Country Farm October 27-28 Join us for fresh non-pasteurized apple cider pressed here.  We are the only licensed non-pasteurized cider mill on the Fruit Loop.  Our country market offers cherry, pear, and grape-apple, and our renowned Apple Cider.  Enjoy a cup of hot cider and donuts, Grandma s famous cinnamon-sugar dried apples.
com or call 541-352-6625.
