XIAOTITLE Celebrate Apple Month with Your Favourite BC Tree Fruit | BC Tree Fruits.
KELOWNA, BC - This February, the largest producer of local apples in Western Canada, BC Tree Fruits, is inviting Canadians to celebrate Apple Month by loading up on local apple varieties.
We might not always equate February with fruit season; however BC Tree Fruits apples are available in multiple delicious varieties.
Apple Month encourages supporting local growers while adhering to Doctor s orders of an apple a day!
The 2012 Apple Month also marks a milestone for BC Tree Fruits as it is the Okanagan organization s 75th Anniversary.
75 years ago in 1936 a group of dedicated farmers came together with a goal to provide the finest tree fruits worldwide.
From that first planted seed grew a co-operative of over 700 producers that continues today.
To commemorate Apple Month this February, BC Tree Fruits is launching its first nationwide contest – The Artful Apple.
Artful Apple asks fruit fans to decorate their favourite variety of BC Tree Fruits apples and upload the works of art to share.
The public will vote for their favourite Artful Apple.
The individual with the winning apple will be awarded an exlusive Okanagan vacation package for four.
Full prizing and details at www.artfulapple.com .  Apple Month is an initiative that dates back to 1960 as a way to celebrate and promote locally grown fruit,  said Rick Austin, Director of Sales and Marketing for BC Tree Fruits.
 Some consumers think the winter months leave no opportunity for fresh fruit or quality fruit; however we are proud to have multiple apple varieties in the produce sales and Apple Month aids in spreading this awareness,  Austin adds.
During Apple Month, shoppers will notice additional displays of BC Tree Fruits apple varieties available at this time of year, including Royal Gala, Ambrosia, McIntosh, Spartan, Red Delicious, Golden Delicious, Granny Smith and Fuji.
Consumers will be able to sample apples in stores during the month.
