XIAOTITLE A week in tech: Google Nexus 7 tablet, YouView TV and iPhone jeans | Metro.co.uk.
Google launches the Google Nexus 7 If tablets had lids, Google would’ve just lifted the one on its new Android tablet, the Google Nexus 7.
The announcement confirms what we’d already spotted when leaked pics of the new tablet, built by Asus, surfaced earlier in the week.
The 340g, 7in slate’s got a quad-core Tegra 3 hitched up to 1GB RAM to drive the all-new Jelly Bean (Android 4.1) OS to its 1200x800 IPS Gorilla Glass screen.
The Google Nexus 7 will be available in mid-July, with pre-orders from the Google Play Store.
Prices start at £160 for the 8GB model.
iPhone Jeans – a crime against fashion?
iPhone Jeans – a crime against fashion?
If you re constantly having to stand up just to slip your smartphone out of your pocket then you ve got two options – stop cutting off your circulation with skin-tight jeans, or slip on this made-for-iPhone pair.
Alphyn s Delta415 Wearcom jeans feature a transparent plastic pocket for your iPhone (or similarly-sized smartphone), allowing you to check your notifications and messages at a glance without having to slip it out of your pocket.
Available in sizes 28 to 38, the Delta415 s can be snapped up for now for £100 so go forth and prepare to look fabulous, you stylish gadgeteer you.
YouView internet TV launches next week?
YouView internet TV launches next week?
YouView, the Freeview box-styled internet TV player, has been in the works since 2010 and may finally launch on Wednesday, July 4th.
Funded by the taxpayer and Sir Alan Sugar, YouView is a set top box that offers streaming internet TV to those without a connected console or smart TV.
It’ll mean your big screen can play BBC iPlayer, Lovefilm, ITV Player, 4oD, and more.
But will there be something extra?
We’re hoping for Skype chats with a built-in camera, social networking with live TV, and recording internet TV to name but a few.
iPhone 5 to get NFC for Passbook payments We ve heard the iPhone 5 NFC rumblings before but this time the evidence of Cupertino landing some sort of iWallet in our laps at the (probable) iPhone 5 launch in October looks pretty convincing.
If Apple does stick NFC in the iPhone 5, it could be the start of a mobile payments revolution.
Retailers have been slow to foot the bill of NFC equipment in shops but if millions of iPhone owners start demanding the right to pay with a swipe of their smartphone, we are sure to see this technology in our high streets soon.
Google’s Project Glass future specs Sergey Brin took to the Google I/O keynote stage and turned it into a temporary catwalk to model the company’s latest eyewear – Project Glass.
We got to see three styles – blue, white and black – each housing a “powerful” CPU in one arm, plus a mic, speaker, camera and touchpad.
The specs should be available in 2013, however you can pre-order a pair now for the princely (though, all things considered, not astronomical) price of US$1500.
The July edition of Stuff magazine, an Olympic special edition, is on sale now with an iPad edition available from the Newsstand shelves in the App Store.
Further details can be found at www.stuff.tv/themag . Stuff is also encouraging readers to vote for their favourite cover star on the Stuff Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/joinstuff . Follow Stuff on Facebook at www.facebook.com/joinstuff or on Twitter at
