XIAOTITLE Skinny Jeans for the Apple Body Shape | Dump Your Frump.
Apple shaped ladies can wear skinny jeans too!
(img: 365 Hangers)   This week we’re looking at body shapes and how to dress for them.
 A friend of mine was here to visit this week and she brought with her a lot of awesome outfits.
 She’s someone who has figured out how to dress to flatter herself.
 She’s a self described “apple shaped” girl.
 She’s got great legs, great cleavage and when she gains weight it goes to her middle.
 Drew Barrymore is apple shaped.
 Thinner legs, with a heavier middle and chest.
 Here she tells us how she’s learned to embrace the skinny jean trend.
If you’re like me, or any woman on the planet, there is probably some area of your body that is less than pleasing to you.  For me, it’s my midsection.
This, however, can cause some extra fabric in the hip and thigh just making me look heftier.  As I am slowly learning to “dump my frump” I have started to embrace the current trend of skinny jeans.  I used to shy away from this style of pants because the low-rise nature generally made me look as if I had placed a rubber-band around my waist.
Envision squeezing the center of a balloon art animal…not pretty.  Lately, though, I have been trying them on and finding that the new stretchiness of the lighter weight denims do not create quite such a disturbing effect.  Paired with boots and a longer top or one of this season’s highly popular chunky knit sweaters, it can take the focus off of my middle and back onto my legs.
If you’ve ever noticed, apple shaped people usually have skinnier legs.  This style has given me a little of my “old” self back, and that is worth it’s weight in gold.  I’ve had a lot of luck at the Gap, Ann Taylor Loft and even Target.
Sometimes we need to try a style a few times before we find we like it.
Kind of like getting your kids to eat their vegetables, it’s not always successful on the first try.
Do you have an apple shaped body type?
 You probably are if: You may have full breasts and a wide back.
Your arms could be slim, while your shoulders could be wide You could have slim hips and a trim backside.
You gain weight at the midsection.
Stay tuned for more posts from Jamin about dressing for the apple shape body type.
 And if you’re an apple shape, tell us in the comments what you’ve found that works.
