XIAOTITLE Blue Jeans Envelope Case for Apple Ipad 2.
Blue Jeans Envelope Case for iPad 2 Holding the Blue Jeans Envelope iPad 2 carrying case in hand, clamping it under your arms, or placing it on the table, are what you would do once you see your favorite case.
Everything you do with such a case becomes fun.
This is the feeling the Jeans Cool Style Leather Case Handbag for iPad 2 brings to me. It s made of premium PU leather with jeans style exterior and microfiber interior.
This gives immense protection to your iPad 2 from bumps and scratches when it is accidentally fall or drop.
iPad 2 Cases provides immense everyday protection against scratches, dirt, dust and everyday hazards.
It’s a totally unique and completely fits to support your device.
Its design supports a wide range of the world’s most popular devices.
It is slim and touches very comfortable and high-class.
Two wooden buttons make up the closure through a bungee.
Fold back the flap and tap on your iPad . You would love the case even more.
The iPad 2 Cases have cutouts for the easy access of main features such as the camera, headphones and speakers so that there will be no need to remove the iPad  from the iPad 2 case . iPad 2 Cases (Jeans Envelope): Specifications Color: Blue Brand: Apple Model: iPad 2 Case: Jeans Envelope Case - Anti-slip with skin textured surface Design: Blue Jeans Envelope Case for iPad 2 One of our bestselling ranges of iPad 2 Cases is now available.
Also Get Fantastic quality mobile phone cases for all brands at cheap reasonable prices.
All items are in stock and are dispatched to you within 24 hours of your payment being received.
All orders completed by 5pm Monday to Friday (excluding Bank Holidays), will be despatched the same day.
All orders completed after this time will be despatched next working day with orders placed after 5pm on Friday being despatched the following Monday.
UK Delivery – we use Royal Mail 1st class which takes 2-3 working days  Free of Charge.
EU Delivery: We use standard international packet post which normally takes 5-7 working days to reach European countries.
International Delivery: For International purchase we only ship to our items to Australia, New Zealand, USA and Canada.
We use standard international packet post which normally takes 8-12 working days to reach above countries.
In order to provide you 100% Satisfaction, we started special Return Policy.
If In extremely unlikely situation of you receiving damaged goods, incorrect or not as describe or you are not happy with the item received, we will take it back and refund you a FULL payment + return postage costs.
It applies within 7 working days on receipt of goods.
Item must be unused and its original packaging.
At the same time we offer 30 days replacement warranty of our all products apart from manufacturing warranty.
Please buy with piece of mind.
14 Days Money Back Guarantee: Cyber World UK provides 100% satisfaction guarantee.
On arrival of your order, if any reason you are not happy with your purchase, we offer you 14 days money back guarantee.
Item must be returned within 14 days of receipt.
