XIAOTITLE eBay Guides - Ladies Guide to buying Apple bottom Jeans.
You have probably heard the song  Low  by Flo Rida which goes  shorty s got them apple bottom jeans, boots with the fur .
Well that is the same one and only apple bottom jeans made by Nelly I am talking about.
So why am I writing a buying guide??
Because before I could find these precious stones of the jeans world, I was stranded and very miserable.
I am very curvy with a round behind and I had tried so many jeans, mostly diesel and Republic but they didn t fit right and hung on me like low rider jeans.
So one day, I just decided to try apple bottoms jeans.
And guess what?
They fit me very well and right now I have more than 10 of them sitting in my wardrobe :).
Now for the guide: -Apple bottom jeans have allowance at the hip and buttock area.
So therefore do not buy a smaller or larger jeans size than you actually are. Buying a jeans size smaller than you won t fit you properly.
Even though they have a large allowance on the buttock area, they won t go past your hips.
And buying a jeans larger than you would sag and hang around your hips which would not look good at all.
- Secondly, the tag on the jeans are American.
I am a size 9/10 which is a UK 12/14.
If you are not too sure of your American size, contact them on applebottomsuk.com and ask them which US size corresponds to your UK jeans size.
- After confirming which US size applies to you, make sure you ask the seller to confirm the US size on the jeans.  - Even though, used apple bottom jeans are good, I urge you to purchase new Apple bottom jeans.
The reason being that you don t truthfully know how long the seller has used the jeans for and how much wear is left in them.
So you might purchase a good used pair but realise that they rip on the inner thigh area after a while of wear and use.
This is especially for ladies whose inner thighs rub against each other.
Constant rubbing will make that area thinner and more susceptible to rip and tear.
- Also make sure you check the style of the jeans.
Are you a straight or skinny or flare lady?
Not every cut of jeans fits everybody s body shape.
The key to looking fabulous in an Apple bottom jeans is knowing what style of jeans fits you.  Those are all the tips I can think of right now.
Try Apple bottom jeans and my dear ladies, you would not be disappointed.
