XIAOTITLE Apple Bottom Jeans And Boots With Fur | Clothing Jeans.
Apple Bottom Jeans And Boots With Fur Review on Apple Bottom Jeans By Reshma Rangaswamy - Ezinearticles Apple Bottom Jeans clothes were launched in 2003.
The clothing line targeted women with well-endowed figures especially the rear side.
 Curvy  is their motto.
To elaborate, the Apple Bottom brand focuses on bringing out lifestyle collections to celebrate the natural shapes and silhouettes of women rather than trying to make them fit into shapeless or unbefitting clothes.
Nelly personally oversees every single item produced by the brand and ensures that whoever wears his clothes feels special because of the eye catching designs and superb fit the brand promises.
The Apple Bottom Brand stands out with their signature logo of an apple on the rear pockets of the jeans.
The clothes fall in the category of hip hop and casually classy yet can be described as street wear.
The brand mixes figure hugging materials like Lycra with denim to create the  snug  look.
Apple-Bottom Jeans clothes line gained international popularity with their search campaign for a brand ambassador or model which was aired on Channels.
The world sat up and noticed this unique brand and the collection was a sell-out in two weeks.
In fact the brand features in various hip hop songs.
The sizes on sale are also varied ranging from the petite to plus size.
The Apple-Bottom plus size clothes are a sell out among bigger women because in spite of their larger silhouettes they appear beautiful wearing these best fitting and trend setting clothes.
To top it, the prices are also affordable making them accessible to a wider clientele.
Apple bottom jeans-stores are a shopper s paradise selling lifestyle products, infant wear, jewelry, handbags, accessories etc. They also have lingerie and swim wear line.
Apart from these the brand also endorses a fragrance.
They choose to be different by bringing out jeans encrusted with rhinestones, beads and intricate detailing.
Apple bottoms can also be ordered online and they have a same day shipment option.
They are also available on e bay with excellent deals.
Today, this brand which kick started its line solely with jeans caters to the whims and fancies of fashionable women all over the world launching classier and trendier designs each season.
