XIAOTITLE Find a NH Apple Farm - NH Fruit Grower s Association.
The New Hampshire Fruit Growers Association is an organization of about 40 farmer who all share a passion for growing good fruit and grow New Hampshire apple with care for local customers.
There is an orchard within easy reach no matter where you live or play in our beautiful state, from the seacoast to the Merrimack and Connecticut River valley to the Great North Woods.
Our mission is to promote the New Hampshire fruit industry through grower education on the most up-to-date crop and pest management technique available.
We hope this will allow u to continue to grow the highest quality apples, peach and other fruit consumer can buy, help maintain an industry important to New Hampshire s overall economy, and help maintain the rural character of our landscape for all citizen to enjoy.
Our grower are a diverse lot.
Some have many acre of New Hampshire apple and sell fruit in the wholesale markets, fruit that often end up in your local supermarket.
Others are smaller, growing just enough fruit to satisfy the demand of their local pick your own and roadside stand customers.
The one thing they all share, though, is a love of growing apple and other fruits.
New Hampshire apple are an important part of our history, our present, and our future.
We hope you support our members, growing quality fruit locally for you.
I think probably everyone ha heard the phrase “Buy Local” recently.
Why is this movement gaining strength?
How doe it affect the quality and the nutritional value of the produce that I purchase?
Here are some answers.
Buying locally grown fruit simply mean sourcing your fruit from farmer who grew it a close to your home a possible.
This mean your fruit will be fresher and more nutritious because it is harvested at it peak of maturity, it also mean you are supporting a local farmer and keeping your produce dollar working in your local economy instead of one thousand of mile away!
This also mean you can get to know personally the farmer who grew the fruit, ask him or her questions, and know that it wa grown in a way that wa environmentally sustainable and healthy for you!
The Benefits of buying local go on and on!
It really is a win-win situation for everyone involved.
When are New Hampshire grown tree fruit ready for harvest?
Next time at the farm inquire how you can store these great New Hampshire grown fruit so that you can “Buy Local” all year long!
