XIAOTITLE Flo-Rida - Low Lyrics.
T-Pain) Mmmmmmmm Let me talk to em Let me talk to em (Let it rain) Mmmmmmmm Let me talk to em C mon!
Shawty had apple bottom jean (jeans) Boots with the fur (with the fur) The whole club wa looking at her She hit the floor (she hit the floor) Next thing you know Shawty got low, low, low, low, low, low, low, low Them baggy sweat pant And the Reebok s with the strap (with the straps) She turned around and gave that big booty a smack (hey!
She had them Apple bottom jean (jeans) Boots with the fur (with the fur) The whole club wa looking at her She hit the floor (she hit the floor) Next thing you know Shawty got low, low, low, low, low, low, low, low Them baggy sweat pant And the Reebok s with the strap (with the straps) She turned around and gave that big booty a smack (hey!
Apple bottom jean (jeans) Boots with the fur (with the fur) The whole club wa looking at her She hit the floor (she hit the floor) Next thing you know Shawty got low, low, low, low, low, low, low, low Them baggy sweat pant And the Reebok s with the strap (with the straps) She turned around and gave that big booty a smack (hey!
Apple bottom jean (jeans) Boots with the fur (with the fur) The whole club wa looking at her She hit the floor (she hit the floor) Next thing you know Shawty got low, low, low, low, low, low, low, low Them baggy sweat pant And the Reebok s with the strap (with the straps) She turned around and gave that big booty a smack (hey!
Songwriters: NAJM, FAHEEM RASHEED / DILLARD, TRAMAR / HUMPHREY, MONTAY DESMOND / ROBERSON, KOREY / SIMMONS, H.
by Unregistered on Jun 25th 2012   4:09 pm This song is great...
No it beter than great it ..
Well i haw no word 4 it it just ...
She hit the floor next thing u kno shawty got low..
by Unregistered on May 30th 2012   4:47 pm I love in the zookeeper when kevin james start singing this song with the gorilla!!!
That s pretty much why i went to see that movie!!!
(and why it one of my favs along with elf with will ferrell, and all of the musicals, and princess diaries...
by Unregistered on May 30th 2012   4:42 pm I only knew the chorus to this song...
The rest is gross!!!
by Unregistered on May 25th 2012   11:43 pm You go down and that is all away down to the floor.
Or it can be that the tempitcher droped.
by Unregistered on May 22nd 2012   11:36 pm Low mean somebody is lower than usual they aren t high.
by Unregistered on May 16th 2012   1:54 pm I know hoe to rock it and be cute without being a hoe...
by Unregistered on May 11th 2012   8:22 pm Awesome and sexy just so cool and i love this song and i listen to it every day because it rocks!!!
by Unregistered on Apr 22nd 2012   3:44 am Low, make my head dance unconsiously, perfect guys...
