XIAOTITLE apple-history.com / Recent Changes.
Recent Changes Tuesday, 3 January 2012 Welcome to the new apple-history!
I ve been slowly building the new UI over the past year, making slow but steady progress toward what you now see here.
The frames-based site wa nearly nine year old, and long overdue for a major rework, and I finally had time to finish it up during the holidays.
I hope you love (or can at least tolerate) the new site!
Here are some highlight of the new design: Complete re-skin!
My goal wa a clean, simple site that didn t feel completely foreign.
The core layout of each page should still look familiar.
I ve made an attempt to test this on a many browser a I can, but there will inevitability be some kink to iron out.
Please be patient!
No more frames!
I struggled for a long time with how to make every page of the site easily accessible from every other page, and for a long time frame wa the best answer I had.
After year of experimentation, I think I ve found a reasonable solution in the new navigation column you see to your left.
It should remember it state from screen to screen, and default to a reasonable state when page are loaded from link or bookmarks.
It us very simple javascript and css, and should degrade nicely to a simple bulleted list for simple browsers.
Removing frame ha the added benefit of making bookmarking much easier.
As you click around the site, you ll notice that the URLs are much shorter.
The old-style URLs should all still work fine, but will redirect to the new shorter ones, which should get picked up by the search engine over the next few weeks.
Tweet/+1 button on ever page!
I added tweet button to the old site a few month ago, but I think the integration is a little cleaner now.
There s also a follow button up top so you can get a tweet whenever I manage to update the site.
Model Comparison improvements!
The comparison table are a little better integrated with the rest of the site visually.
The pull-down menu is still there, but ha been augmented to also behave a an auto-complete search field.
I find this make comparing model pretty easy.
I ve also added the iPhone 4S, the late 11 MacBook Pros, and fixed a few small spec errata.
I believe I ve worked out all of the major bug in the new site, but there s still a lot to do, which I hope to get to over the course of the next year.
The standard caveat still applies, though: I work a busy, full time job, and update to the site may still be several month removed from one another.
Thanks for visiting!
Saturday, 24 September 2011 Holy Moly!
I could list all the model I m adding, but it s basically 2010 and 2011.
My newish-job at Twitter keep me pretty busy, but I ve been hacking away a time allows, and am finally up to date, with a number of small correction a well.
Thanks to all the folk who have emailed to check in and make sure I m still here.
I intend to keep the site up, running, and mostly current for the forceable future, though I ll probably continue to be a few month behind most of the time.
I ve also been working on a larger structural update to the site, which didn t make the cut for this release, but I hope to get out by the end of the year (along with whatever new machine get released in the interim).
I ve added a follow button to the site navigation for the @apple history Twitter account, from which I will tweet when ever I make up an update in the future.
Wednesday, 9 June 2010 Added the new MacBook and MacBook Pro models, added the iPhone 4.
Fixed a few typos.
Monday, 8 February 2010 fixed a typo and the price list for the iMac (Late 2009), and added the Mac mini (Late 2009), which I had mostly added already.
Saturday, 6 February 2010 Happy (one month after) New Year!
Added the Late 2009 model and the iPad.
Made more smallish, not all that apparent under-the-hood changes.
Tuesday, 29 September 2009 Within hour of launching the comparison feature I managed to break it in attempt to fix bookmarking (which had been broken for comparison pages).
Both work now.
Sunday, 27 September 2009 Boy oh boy, it s been a while, hasn t it?
Nearly a year!
Thanks/Sorry to all those who wrote in to ask if I wa dead, and even more thanks to those of you who didn t!
I m not dead, I haven t forgotten about or given up on the site, and I do intend to bring it up to date and improve it over time.
Now that we ve gotten that out of the way: the site ha been updated with all the 2009 models, and ha had some major under-the-hood renovation to increase stability, scalability, and to aid in future feature enhancements.
As proof that all that pretty much invisible under-the-hood work wa worth something, I ve added a new feature, which allows you to compare up to four model side by side.
Every model page now ha a pull-down menu listing all other models, and a compare button.
Once you get past the initial annoyance at the list being so darn long, it s easy a pie!
I intend, at some point, to come up with something better than a 340-item pull down menu, but I had to get the update out before 2010.
In addition to yet another round of corrections, I ve also updated a bunch of the image for older models, thanks to the very generous folk at Old Computers (a really great collection of 70 s and 80 s computers) and Todo Apple Blog . I figure We ve got a few week before the site go out of date again, so enjoy!
Friday, 17 April 2009 Made some significant structural improvement under the hood, and made a few spec corrections.
I m hoping to have time to catch on new model sometime soonish.
Tuesday, 25 November 2008 Added new MacBook, MacBook Pro, and MacBook Air.
Made a few small corrections.
