XIAOTITLE Apple show new MacBook, most beautiful computer we ve ever made | Fox News.
With that geeky joke (the answer?
None, that s a hardware problem ), Apple s Siri voice-control system opened the company s annual Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) in San Francisco.
But the real star of the show wa a razor-thin new MacBook Air that Apple called it most beautiful computer ever.
Apple CEO Tim Cook took the stage after the warm-up joke ended, to begin with a bit of hype about the popularity of software on Apple s gadgets.
The App Store ha some 650,000 apps and over 30 billion downloads to date, he said.
He quickly segued into the real highlight of the show: the updated Mac computers.
New software isn t surprising: Apple ha used it WWDC to announce new iPhone software for the past few years.More interesting is the next-generation MacBook Pro, unveiled by Phil Schiller, senior vice president of worldwide marketing.
How close are we to Prometheus technology?
the most beautiful computer we ve ever made, Schiller said.
The MacBook Pro ha a 15.4-inch high-definition Retina display, weighs 4.5 pounds, and come with a new Intel chip.
Prices will start at $2,199.
“There ha never been a notebook this thin, this light, and this powerful.
It s an engineering breakthrough,” Schiller said.
The Pro measure just 0.71 inch thick, the company said, putting it on a par with the Air.
But speaking of the Macbook Air, Apple also showed a revamped version of the superthin laptop that wa largely responsible for the ultrabook invasion currently sweeping out all the old, fat laptop and ushering in an era of envelope-slim notebooks.
The new Air come with up to a 2.0-GHz dual-core i7 chip -- an ultrafast Ivy Bridge processor newly unveiled from CPU giant Intel -- a well a up to 8GB of 1,600-MHz memory.
It also includes fast new USB 3.0 ports.
The Air is on sale today, and sell for $999 to $1,499.
Pirated Game of Thrones more popular than TV show?
On the Mac software side, Apple already demonstrated most of the feature of OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion in February and said it will go on sale late this summer, but developer can already download it.
It narrow the gap between the PC and phone software packages, making Mac personal computer work more like iPhones.
Apple on Monday announced three new apps for Mountain Lion -- Messages, Reminders, and Notes -- a well a tighter integration with the iCloud online storage system and integrated voice control, though not through Siri.
Microsoft Corp., Apple s chief competitor in PC software, is on a parallel course.
It s set to release Windows 8 later this year, bringing the look and user interface of Windows Phone to PCs.
Moutain Lion will sell for $19.99, the company said.
Finally, Scott Forstall took to the stage to discus iOS 6, the next iteration of the software that power the iPhone, iPod and iPad.
The software will see over 200 enhancements, he declared, including significant update to Siri.
Notably, the company announced deep integration with Facebook and that it is working with such car maker a GM, BMW, Mercedes and more to build a Siri access button directly into the steering wheel.
“We’re working with car manufacturer to include a button that will bring up Siri,” Forstall said -- a clever idea that show Apple still know how to innovate.
Finally, Apple announced a home-grown mapping feature, to replace the Google Maps service it ha used since the iPhone wa first released.
It includes a 3D mapping feature, created from fly-overs of major metropolitan areas, and new mapping feature including traffic, support for 100 million businesses, and turn-by-turn navigation.
Ask Siri Are we there yet? and she ll respond with the current status.
Relax and enjoy the drive.
iOS 6 will be available to developer in beta in a few days.
Ordinary user will see it sometime in the Fall.
The product we make, combined with the apps you make can fundamentally change the world, Cook told the assembled crowd of developers.
