XIAOTITLE Why You Should Eat Brightly Colored Fruits and Vegetables | Mark s Daily Apple.
If you want to lose weight, gain muscle, increase energy levels, reduce stress or just generally look and feel healthier you ve come to the right place.
Subscribe to my free weekly newsletter for tips, advice and special insider-only information.
Learn more about the Primal Lifestyle by visiting the Primal Blueprint 101 page.
Thanks for visiting!
Today I round out my Wahls-inspired series on the health benefit of eating various class of plant matter.
If you’re just now joining us, be sure to watch the video in which Terry Wahls explains how eating a Paleo diet rich in leafy greens, cruciferous vegetables, and brightly colored produce (plus meat and seaweed and fish and offal ) coincided with a regression in her rapidly-progressing MS. Then, read the previous two installment on leafy green and crucifer to get completely caught up.
You know how those deep red beet sliced in half to show off the insides, those taut blueberries, those purple and violet mottled, oddly-shaped heirloom tomato lightly dusted with soil, and those glistening blackberry sitting in your periphery pop out and draw your gaze a you make your way through the farmers’ market?
That’s not just clever product placement.
It’s actually because of the pretty colors.
It’s by “design.” Mother nature, you see, is a masterful visual merchandiser who come up with all these lovely color so that plant can reproduce.
But wait – how doe color help plant reproduce?
Plants tend to be stationary.
Except for the ents, they are, quite literally, rooted in place.
A tomato plant can’t walk, can’t kneel and lovingly place it firstborn into a shallow womb dug into the soft, fertile earth.
That would be awesome to see, but it’s not gonna happen.
What doe happen is that colorful plant catch the eye of hungry organism who eat the fruit, swallow the seed, and poop it out someplace else, thus giving it a chance to take hold, germinate, and develop into a full-blown adult plant.
In order to disseminate their progeny across the land, many plant must therefore manufacture pigment – colorful compound that draw the eye and signal “food source” to mobile, hungry organisms.
Being mobile, hungry organism ourselves, we are also attracted to colorful fruit and vegetable . And for good reason.
See, mother nature is also thrifty.
It’s rare that she manufacture a compound with only one use – she like her creation to multitask – and plant pigment are no different.
They serve multiple role in plant in addition to attracting animals, such a protecting it from UV damage, dampening the effect of excess light, enabling photosynthesis, and even acting a endogenous antioxidant (plants can’t really sip red wine and pop supplements, after all).
Luckily, it appears that we can leverage many of these pigment for our own gain by eating brightly colored fruit and vegetables.
Which is why both Terry Wahls and I recommend eating a wide variety of them.
There are hundred of different bioactive plant pigments, each with unique effects.
Rather than isolate just one or two, by eating a variety of colorful plant we ensure consumption of a wide range of potentially health-promoting plant pigments.
I could end this post now with the basic advice to “eat colorful food and lot of them.” This would cut down on reading time, ingratiate myself to vegan and vegetarian readers, and still manage to convey an effective, actionable message.
But alas, I know you guy like the gritty details.
It’s not enough (for most of you) to read someone tell you that eating blueberry and purple sweet potato is healthy.
Sometimes you want to vividly imagine those anthocyanins sliding down your gullet, preventing the oxidation of omega-3 fatty acid in your gut , and interacting with your body at the cellular level to produce beneficial antioxidant and/or hormetic effects.
Sometimes you want to know what you’re putting inside your body on a deeper level.
If that’s you, keep on reading.
If it’s not, just go out, eat some colorful produce, and you’ll be fine.
When I put this post together, I struggled with formatting.
Should I cover each individual pigment?
With dozen of them out there, that would be a large undertaking.
Should I cover each plant?
Plants contain multiple pigments, so it could get confusing rather quickly.
Should I cover each color?
That’s confusing, because there’s a lot of overlapping and combination of different pigment into different colors.
I decided to break them up into pigment categories.
Anthocyanins and Other Flavonoids Since I already mentioned anthocyanins, let’s start there.
Anthocyanins are flavonoids, the most common type of polyphenol.
Pretty much any fruit, vegetable, or flower with a significant amount of purple or blue get that color from anthocyanins.
Even some red can be anthocyanin-based.
The deeper the color, the more anthocyanins.
We’re talking: Blueberries – Anthocyanin-rich blueberry juice improved cognitive function and memory in aging adult humans.
Raspberries (black and red) – Raspberry juice show anti-atherosclerotic effect in hyperlipidemic rodent , and although human study are lacking , there is a strong basis for considering them a healthful food.
Blackberries – Perhaps my favorite berry , blackberry are rich in flavonoid pigment with in vivo evidence of protection against neurological degeneration and bone loss . Purple sweet potato – Tons of reference in my sweet potato post (that’s my post about sweet potatoes, not my sweet post about potatoes).
Same go for regular purple potatoes.
Eggplants – Nasunin, a potent eggplant anthocyanin that is strongly absorbed in the GI tract , display antioxidant effect . Make sure to eat the peel, though.
Cherries – Although (again) human study are lacking, the considerable anthocyanin content of cherry  suggests that their efficacy in animal model may well carry over to us.
Cranberries – Cranberry juice, whose anthocyanins are bioavailable in human after drinking , improved vascular function in heart disease patient . Purple tomato – In addition to carotenoid (more on those below), purple tomato also contain significant level of anthocyanins . Purple carrot – Same go for purple carrots.
both in the colorful camp and the sulfur-rich or leafy-green camps.
Like: Red leaf lettuce – Leafy green and colorful.
Radicchio – Leafy green and colorful.
Red cabbage – Sulfur-rich and colorful (with 36 different anthocyanins ).
Purple cauliflower – Sulfur-rich and colorful.
Purple kale – Leafy green, sulfur-rich, and colorful.
I could go on, but I won’t. The point is that any plant with these color is going to contain these compounds, because these compound literally are the colors.
That mean I’ve missed the vast majority of anthocyanin sources, but it also mean that you’ll have an easy time finding them out there in the world.
Eat up (but rinse your mouth out after; they stain) and go for blues, reds, and purples.
There are a couple other relevant flavonoids.
Anthocyanins get the most press, but there are other food with potentially beneficial health effect due to flavonoid content.
Turmeric – Contains curcumin, which give the spice it distinctive, persistent yellow color.
I’ve written an entire piece on the health benefit of turmeric , and curcumin is responsible for the lion’s share of them.
Apples and onion – A light yellow pigment, quercetin is found in apple and onion (except for white onions).
Red and yellow onion are high in quercetin ( PDF ), while most of the quercetin in apple resides in the skin . Carotenoids Carotenoids are pigment that provide the orange, yellow, and red color found in food like carrot (get it?), sweet potatoes, cantaloupes, bell peppers, squash, watermelon and tomatoes.
You’ve got beta-carotene, alpha-carotene, beta-cryptoxanthin, gamma-carotene, and beta-zeacarotene, which can be partially converted to retinol, the active (animal) form of vitamin A. You’ve also got lutein, lycopene, and zeaxanthin, which cannot be converted to vitamin A. Don’t rely on carotenoid to fulfill your vitamin A requirements.
Liver and egg yolk are much better, more reliable sources.
Besides, beta-carotene supplementation doesn’t seem to work very well.
In several studies, it ha appeared to increase the risk of lung and prostate cancer, and a 2007 Cochrane review found that beta-carotene supplement were associated with an increase in general mortality . “Supplementation” of alpha-carotene, via carotenoid-rich fruit and vegetables, however, appears to have the opposite relationship . Huh, food’s good for you… who knew?
Get carotene through orange vegetable and fruits, like squash, carrots, sweet potatoes, cantaloupes, and bell peppers.
The other carotenoid – the one that don’t convert to vitamin A, like lutein, lycopene, and zeaxanthin – appear to be helpful.
Both lutein and zeaxanthin accumulate in the retina of our eyes, where they seem to play major roles.
The more lutein and zeaxanthin you eat, the more it accumulates in your retina  (although this is most pronounced in patient with low baseline pigment level ). Low dietary intake of lutein and zeaxanthin are associated with elevated incidence of age-related macular degeneration , and a similar relationship wa found for cataract . Get lutein and zeaxanthin through spinach, kale (what doesn’t kale have?), dandelion greens, chard, collards, romaine lettuce, paprika, and turnip greens.
Lycopene doe some cool stuff, too.
It  reduces lipid peroxidation in people with heart disease, a well a protects the skin against UV-related damage from the sun . There’s also a lot of research into the effect of lycopene intake on cancer.
The best source of lycopene are cooked tomato products, like tomato paste  or sauce, especially cooked with fat  (but not sunflower oil !), but lower level can be attained through raw tomatoes, pink grapefruit , pink guava, and watermelon.
The absolute best source, however, is gac, a Vietnamese fruit that beat tomato by 70-fold.
It also contains high level of other carotenoids, all of which are bound by long chain fats, making them even more bioavailable.
Anyone every try gac?
Betalains Although betalain pigment are described a “deep red” and “purple” and sound similar to the anthocyanin family, they are not the same.
They look different (just compare a beet to a strawberry – not quite the same).
In fact, betalains and anthocyanins have never been found in the same plant; they appear to be mutually exclusive . Besides the beet (where “betalain” get it name), rhubarb, and the stem of chard, there aren’t very many source of readily edible betalains.
I suppose you could throw together a floral salad of bougainvillea, amaranth, and purple cacti, but for the most part, you’re going to get your betalains from beets.
All beet contain all betalains, just in different ratios. In purple or red beets, betacyanins predominate.
In yellow beets, betaxanthins predominate.
Possible benefit of betalains include: Inhibition of lipid peroxidation . A beet extract rich in betacyanins showed cytotoxic effect on human prostate and breast cancer line . Betacyanins from red beet protected gamma-irradiated mouse . Well, I hope that’s enough to convince you to include more color in your diet.
As you can see, not all of the benefit of plant pigment are “proven,” but they’re probably all quite safe in the amount you’ll find in foods.
So go ahead and eat up a wide variety.
If they do turn out to be helpful, you’ll have hedged your bet quite nicely.
With all that said, what are your favorite brightly colored edible plants?
How do you like to get your anthocyanins, carotenoids, and betalains (well, I bet I can guess how you get that last one)?
Let me know in the comment section!
