XIAOTITLE eBay Guides - Ladies Guide to buying Apple bottom Jeans.
You have probably heard the song Low by Flo Rida which go shorty s got them apple bottom jeans, boot with the fur .
Well that is the same one and only apple bottom jean made by Nelly I am talking about.
So why am I writing a buying guide??
Because before I could find these precious stone of the jean world, I wa stranded and very miserable.
I am very curvy with a round behind and I had tried so many jeans, mostly diesel and Republic but they didn t fit right and hung on me like low rider jeans.
So one day, I just decided to try apple bottom jeans.
And guess what?
They fit me very well and right now I have more than 10 of them sitting in my wardrobe :).
Now for the guide: -Apple bottom jean have allowance at the hip and buttock area.
So therefore do not buy a smaller or larger jean size than you actually are. Buying a jean size smaller than you won t fit you properly.
Even though they have a large allowance on the buttock area, they won t go past your hips.
And buying a jean larger than you would sag and hang around your hip which would not look good at all.
- Secondly, the tag on the jean are American.
I am a size 9/10 which is a UK 12/14.
If you are not too sure of your American size, contact them on applebottomsuk.com and ask them which US size corresponds to your UK jean size.
- After confirming which US size applies to you, make sure you ask the seller to confirm the US size on the jeans.  - Even though, used apple bottom jean are good, I urge you to purchase new Apple bottom jeans.
The reason being that you don t truthfully know how long the seller ha used the jean for and how much wear is left in them.
So you might purchase a good used pair but realise that they rip on the inner thigh area after a while of wear and use.
This is especially for lady whose inner thigh rub against each other.
Constant rubbing will make that area thinner and more susceptible to rip and tear.
- Also make sure you check the style of the jeans.
Are you a straight or skinny or flare lady?
Not every cut of jean fit everybody s body shape.
The key to looking fabulous in an Apple bottom jean is knowing what style of jean fit you.  Those are all the tip I can think of right now.
Try Apple bottom jean and my dear ladies, you would not be disappointed.
