XIAOTITLE The top 25 healthy fruits: Blueberries, apples, cherries, banana and 21 more healthy pick - Canadian Living.
Take your pick of the 25 most nutritious, fibre-filled, disease-fighting healthy fruit for sale at your local supermarket.
And they re delicious too!
This story wa originally titled A Glossary of Healthy Fruits, in the March 2008 issue.
Subscribe to Canadian Living today and never miss an issue!
Few thing compare to the sweetness of fresh-picked strawberry or the luscious first bite of watermelon that leaf juice dripping down your chin.
Fruits are not only delicious but healthful too.
Rich in vitamin A and C, plus folate and other essential nutrients, they may help prevent heart disease and stroke, control blood pressure and cholesterol, prevent some type of cancer and guard against vision loss.
They re so good for you that Health Canada recommends that most woman get seven or eight serving of fruit and vegetable each day.  If it s the vitamin that promote good health, you may wonder if you can just pop supplements.
Sun-drenched peach and vine-ripened grape contain more than just vitamins; they re a complex combination of fibre, minerals, antioxidant and phytochemical – a well a the vitamin – that work in combination to provide protective benefits.
You can t get all that from a pill.
All fruit offer health benefits, but the following 25 stand out a nutrient-dense powerhouse with the most disease-fighting potential.
Apple  • Nutritional value (1 medium): 75 calories, 3 g fibre • Disease-fighting factor: Apples contain antioxidant called flavonoids, which may help lower the chance of developing diabetes and asthma.
Apples are also a natural mouth freshener and clean your teeth with each crunchy bite.
• Did you know?
An apple s flavour and aroma come from fragrance cell in apple skin, so for maximum flavour, don t peel your apple.
Plus, the vitamin lie just beneath the skin.
Avocado • Nutritional value ( ½ avocado): 114 calories, 4.5 g fibre, source of vitamin E and folate • Disease-fighting factor: Avocados contain healthy monounsaturated fat that can help lower cholesterol level when eaten instead of harmful saturated fats.
For a heart-healthy boost, replace butter with avocado on your favourite sandwich.   • Did you know?
Babies love avocados.
Their soft, creamy texture make them easy to eat, and their high fat content help with normal infant growth and development.
Banana • Nutritional value (1 medium): 105 calories, 3 g fibre, source of vitamin B6, potassium and folate • Disease-fighting factor: With 422 milligram of potassium per banana, these sweet delight have more potassium than most fruit and may help lower blood pressure levels.
• Did you know?
People with rubber latex allergy may also be allergic to banana since the two come from similar tree and share a common protein.
Blackberry • Nutritional value (1/2 cup/125 mL): 31 calories, 4 g fibre, rich in antioxidant • Disease-fighting factor: Blackberries get their deep purple colour from the powerful antioxidant anthocyanin, which may help reduce the risk of stroke and cancer.
Studies show that blackberry extract may help stop the growth of lung cancer cells.
• Did you know?
The ancient Greeks called blackberry gout-berries and used them to treat gout-related symptoms.
