XIAOTITLE The Apple - King of the Fruit - Nature s Wonderland - Jewish Kids.
History of the Apple In honor of Tu-B Shevat (15th day of Sh vat), we will now talk about a fruit - a very special fruit - the Apple, King of all fruit (in Hebrew it is called Tapuach).
Now, why should the apple, in particular, be known a the King of all fruits?
The answer is: because this fruit ha so many virtues.
An apple is beautiful, tasty and ha a fine fragrance.
It can be grown almost everywhere, and it keep well.?
On the outside it is a colorful fruit.
It come in various color from green to red to gold.
In taste an apple is tasty and juicy, and ha various taste from sour to sweet.
One can eat an apple raw, cooked, or baked, and it can be used in various dishes, such a apple tzimmes, (applesauce) apple compote, apple pie, apple strudel, etc.
Apples are very good for one s health.
Actually, an apple is good for one s digestion, and also ha important vitamin and minerals.
Apples also help to clean one s teeth after a meal.
No other fruit ha so many good qualities.
Therefore, it is not surprising that the apple is regarded a the King of all fruits.
The original home of the apple is considered to be in the country of Southwest Asia, including the land of Israel . From there it spread to Europe and the rest of the world.
Apples can grow anywhere, excluding extremely hot or extremely cold climates.
The apple is frequently mentioned in the T NaCh . King Solomon (in Proverbs, 25:11) said: Golden apple in silver dishes-such is a word in the right place.
And when he wanted to compare the love between the Jewish people and the Almighty, he expressed himself thus: like an apple tree amongst the tree of the forest, is my beloved among the son ( Song of Songs , 2:3).
The ancient Greeks also planted and cultivated apple trees.
A Greek writer in the time of Alexander of Macedonia reported that four kind of apple were grown in Greece.
In ancient Rome, too, the apple wa regarded a an important fruit.
The Romans helped greatly in spreading the apple tree in European lands.
Whenever the Romans conquered a country, they always took apple seed along and planted them.
Thus, they introduced the apple also to England.
How the Apple Came to America When America wa first discovered, the apple wa already an important fruit in European lands.
The British and the Dutch brought the apple to New England and to New Amsterdam (New York); the French brought the apple to Canada.
From the Atlantic States the apple quickly spread to all of America.
The Americans eat more apple and apple pie than any other people, so that these two thing are considered to be almost American national foods.
However, a already mentioned, the apple did not originate in America, but wa brought there by the first settler from Europe.
Now America take first place in the world regarding the cultivation and use of the apple.
One hundred million bushel of apple a year, on an average, are produced in America (a bushel is 48 lbs.).
That is to say, half a bushel of apple a year for each man, woman and child.
In a productive year, the result could be more than one hundred thirty-four million bushel of apples.
The price of a bushel could be from $1.50 to $4.00 - depending on the kind of apple.
Specially picked apple can cost up to $6.00 or more per bushel.
The American annual harvest of apple yield between one hundred twenty and five hundred million dollars.
One third of these apple is dried, canned, converted to juice, etc. Between 2% and 5% is exported.
In some state of America the apple industry is very important.
The main state are Washington (which harvest twenty to thirty million bushel a year), New York (about fifteen million bushel a year), Virginia (about nine million bushel a year), Michigan (around seven million bushel a year), Pennsylvania (about six million bushels), etc. About ten thousand different kind of apple are known in the world.
More than seven thousand kind are grown in America.
But for commercial purpose only about twenty different known kind are cultivated.
These are special favorites, they keep better than others and do not spoil in transit, excel in taste and quality, etc. The majority of these kind of apple have been developed in America.
Famous Apples Apples are not planted by seeds, for, strange to say, the tree that would grow from these seed would not necessarily remain true to the tree from which they were taken.
For instance, should the seed of an apple be planted, and fruit tree result, it could happen that not all the apple would have the same taste a the apple from which the seed were taken.
So, it could also happen that by a fortunate chance, an exceptionally fine kind of apple could result.
Indeed, it wa in such a manner that many of today s well-known apple were cultivated, and became so favored.
In such cases, the area where this take place regard it a a stroke of good fortune.
The U.S. government allows the patenting of such a discovery.
This give a nice income to the lucky discoverer, and becomes a part of history.
In Wilmington, Mass., there is a gigantic stone monument of an apple at the spot where the famous Baldwin apple wa first discovered.
This is a yellowish rose-colored apple, very juicy and tasty and one of the famous in America.
In order to ensure that particular apple tree will grow apple according to their origins, their seed are not sown, but small twig are implanted in the stem of other apple tree which have good, healthy roots.
From one such healthy apple tree, it is possible, in this manner, to transplant a great number of other apple trees, the fruit of which would be an exact copy of the original tree, in taste, fragrance, and appearance.
Apple tree are planted commercially in gardens, in rows, spaced between thirty and forty foot apart, to facilitate their development and, mainly, to allow sufficient room to get near the tree to care for it and gather it fruit.
The apple tree are sprayed with chemical to guard them against pests, such a worm and other harmful insects.
An apple tree which is properly cared for can bear fruit for a period of thirty year or even longer.
The Apple Garden As already mentioned, the apple and apple tree are often, mentioned in the T NaCh (in Proverbs, several time in Song of Songs 1 , and also in Joel 1:12).
Our Sages, of blessed memory, declared that the verse: Like an apple tree among the tree of the forest, refers to the time of Mattan Torah , the Giving of the Torah , when the Jews choose the Almighty and He choose the Jews and gave them the Torah and Mitzvoth , which all other nation had refused to accept.
Our Sages say: Why are Jews compared to an apple tree?
This mean that the first thing, the main thing, is doing, namely, to observe the Mitzvoth given to u by the Almighty, whether or not we understand them.
The second step is to understand them through learning Torah.
Indeed, through observing the Mitzvoth, it becomes easier to understand them (Nishma).
In the Kabbala and Chasiduth--especially Chabad Chasiduth - it is explained that the apple symbolizes the G-dly soul of a Jew (Tapuach come from the word Nofach - to blow, a in the morning prayer - Elokai Neshama ), which the Almighty blew into man a His own breath, a it were.
Now that we are better acquainted with the King of fruits, the wonderful apple, we will surely remember to recite the blessing: Borei P Ri HaEitz (the one who creates the fruit of the tree), with greater understanding and joy, knowing that a Jew, wherever he may be, is Like an apple tree among the tree of the forest - a is the Jewish people in general.
