XIAOTITLE Skinny Jeans for the Apple Body Shape | Dump Your Frump.
Apple shaped lady can wear skinny jean too!
(img: 365 Hangers)   This week we’re looking at body shape and how to dress for them.
 A friend of mine wa here to visit this week and she brought with her a lot of awesome outfits.
 She’s someone who ha figured out how to dress to flatter herself.
 She’s a self described “apple shaped” girl.
 She’s got great legs, great cleavage and when she gain weight it go to her middle.
 Drew Barrymore is apple shaped.
 Thinner legs, with a heavier middle and chest.
 Here she tell u how she’s learned to embrace the skinny jean trend.
If you’re like me, or any woman on the planet, there is probably some area of your body that is le than pleasing to you.  For me, it’s my midsection.
This, however, can cause some extra fabric in the hip and thigh just making me look heftier.  As I am slowly learning to “dump my frump” I have started to embrace the current trend of skinny jeans.  I used to shy away from this style of pant because the low-rise nature generally made me look a if I had placed a rubber-band around my waist.
Envision squeezing the center of a balloon art animal…not pretty.  Lately, though, I have been trying them on and finding that the new stretchiness of the lighter weight denim do not create quite such a disturbing effect.  Paired with boot and a longer top or one of this season’s highly popular chunky knit sweaters, it can take the focus off of my middle and back onto my legs.
If you’ve ever noticed, apple shaped people usually have skinnier legs.  This style ha given me a little of my “old” self back, and that is worth it’s weight in gold.  I’ve had a lot of luck at the Gap, Ann Taylor Loft and even Target.
Sometimes we need to try a style a few time before we find we like it.
Kind of like getting your kid to eat their vegetables, it’s not always successful on the first try.
Do you have an apple shaped body type?
 You probably are if: You may have full breast and a wide back.
Your arm could be slim, while your shoulder could be wide You could have slim hip and a trim backside.
You gain weight at the midsection.
Stay tuned for more post from Jamin about dressing for the apple shape body type.
 And if you’re an apple shape, tell u in the comment what you’ve found that works.
