XIAOTITLE Blue Jeans Envelope Case for Apple Ipad 2.
Blue Jeans Envelope Case for iPad 2 Holding the Blue Jeans Envelope iPad 2 carrying case in hand, clamping it under your arms, or placing it on the table, are what you would do once you see your favorite case.
Everything you do with such a case becomes fun.
This is the feeling the Jeans Cool Style Leather Case Handbag for iPad 2 brings to me. It s made of premium PU leather with jean style exterior and microfiber interior.
This give immense protection to your iPad 2 from bump and scratch when it is accidentally fall or drop.
iPad 2 Cases provides immense everyday protection against scratches, dirt, dust and everyday hazards.
It’s a totally unique and completely fit to support your device.
Its design support a wide range of the world’s most popular devices.
It is slim and touch very comfortable and high-class.
Two wooden button make up the closure through a bungee.
Fold back the flap and tap on your iPad . You would love the case even more.
The iPad 2 Cases have cutout for the easy access of main feature such a the camera, headphone and speaker so that there will be no need to remove the iPad  from the iPad 2 case . iPad 2 Cases (Jeans Envelope): Specifications Color: Blue Brand: Apple Model: iPad 2 Case: Jeans Envelope Case - Anti-slip with skin textured surface Design: Blue Jeans Envelope Case for iPad 2 One of our bestselling range of iPad 2 Cases is now available.
Also Get Fantastic quality mobile phone case for all brand at cheap reasonable prices.
All item are in stock and are dispatched to you within 24 hour of your payment being received.
All order completed by 5pm Monday to Friday (excluding Bank Holidays), will be despatched the same day.
All order completed after this time will be despatched next working day with order placed after 5pm on Friday being despatched the following Monday.
UK Delivery – we use Royal Mail 1st class which take 2-3 working day Free of Charge.
EU Delivery: We use standard international packet post which normally take 5-7 working day to reach European countries.
International Delivery: For International purchase we only ship to our item to Australia, New Zealand, USA and Canada.
We use standard international packet post which normally take 8-12 working day to reach above countries.
In order to provide you 100% Satisfaction, we started special Return Policy.
If In extremely unlikely situation of you receiving damaged goods, incorrect or not a describe or you are not happy with the item received, we will take it back and refund you a FULL payment + return postage costs.
It applies within 7 working day on receipt of goods.
Item must be unused and it original packaging.
At the same time we offer 30 day replacement warranty of our all product apart from manufacturing warranty.
Please buy with piece of mind.
14 Days Money Back Guarantee: Cyber World UK provides 100% satisfaction guarantee.
On arrival of your order, if any reason you are not happy with your purchase, we offer you 14 day money back guarantee.
Item must be returned within 14 day of receipt.
