XIAOTITLE BBC News - Half a million Mac computer infected with malware .
More than half a million Apple computer have been infected with the Flashback Trojan, according to a Russian anti-virus firm.
Its report claim that about 600,000 Macs have installed the malware - potentially allowing them to be hijacked and used a a botnet .
The firm, Dr Web, say that more than half that number are based in the US.
Apple ha released a security update, but user who have not installed the patch remain exposed.
Flashback wa first detected last September when anti-virus researcher flagged up software masquerading itself a a Flash Player update.
Once downloaded it deactivated some of the computer s security software.
Later version of the malware exploited weakness in the Java programming language to allow the code to be installed from bogus site without the user s permission.
Remote control Dr Web said that once the Trojan wa installed it sent a message to the intruder s control server with a unique ID to identify the infected machine.
By introducing the code criminal are potentially able to control the machine, the firm s chief executive Boris Sharov told the BBC.
We stress the word potential a we have never seen any malicious activity since we hijacked the botnet to take it out of criminal hands.
However, we know people create virus to get money.
Dr Web also note that 274 of the infected computer it detected appeared to be located in Cupertino, California - home to Apple s headquarters.
Update wait Java s developer, Oracle, issued a fix to the vulnerability on 14 February , but this did not work on Macintoshes a Apple manages Java update to it computers.
Apple released it own security update on Wednesday - more than eight week later.
It can be triggered by clicking on the software update icon in the computer s system preference panel.
The security firm F-Secure ha also posted detailed instruction about how to confirm if a machine is infected and how to remove the Trojan.
Although Apple s system software limit the action it computer can take without requesting their user permission, some security analyst suggest this latest incident highlight the fact that the machine are not invulnerable.
People used to say that Apple computers, unlike Windows PCs, can t ever be infected - but it s a myth, said Timur Tsoriev, an analyst at Kaspersky Lab.
Apple could not provide a statement at this time.
