XIAOTITLE Hood River County Fruit Loop | Heirloom Apple Days.
Have you heard the story of older relatives—or do you remember yourself—when apple pie and applesauce were made from variety such a Spitzenburg, Rome Beauty, Newtown Pippin, Winter Banana, and Ortley?
They were delicious eaten right off the tree, too.
Those are all apple now known a “heirloom” or “Classic” varieties.
They can trace their heritage back 100 year or more, may not store a well a some of the commercial varieties, may be more susceptible to disease or pests, or may bruise more easily.
But they taste so good!
Their individual flavor and aroma have been compared to those of different vintage of wine.
Limited supply of heirloom apple are available, and while truck and railcar-loads of these apple may not be shipped out of the valley, they are being celebrated—and are available—at location all along the Hood River County Fruit Loop during Heirloom Apple Days.
See below for a list of last year s activities.
Pumpkin Funland™ at Rasmussen Farms October 1–November 11 Free admission.
Visit a unique world of more than 50 whimsical scene created from pumpkins, gourds, and other farm items.
Halloween maze for kid 4-10 year old and THEMED CORN MAZE-every year a different story for all ages.
U-pick pumpkin of every size and shape.
Misti Alpaca Trunk Show at Foothills Yarn Fiber October 10-28 With four generation of alpaca expertise in Peru, Misti International brings North American knitter and crocheters a large color and weight yarn selection for one of the softest fiber on earth.  Come see equisite garment hand knit from Misti alpaca yarns.  While you re here, meet our newest alpaca babies.
Swiss-German Edelweiss Day at Mt. View Orchards Inc Fruit Stand October 27 11-4 This festival ha become a tradition on our farm.  Live music, hayrides, Swiss recipes, Swiss apples, kraut, Swiss sausage, hot dogs, bratzelies, chocolate pear fudge.  Good food!  Rain or shine we will have this party.  Squeeze your own cider using heirloom apples.
Hard Cider Days at Aubert Fruit Company October 27-28 Hard cider tasting with Blue Mountain Cider Company.
Enjoy a new twist on an old farm tradition.
10th Annual Heirloom Apple Tasting at Kiyokawa Family Orchards October 27-28 Over 75 variety of apples, more than two dozen variety of Asian and European pears, and more than 200 year of cultivation.  Unique flavor provide an array of fresh and baked applications.  Obscure assortment will pique the curiosity of all inspired to participate.  Spend the day and take home history.
Apple Valley s Heirloom Apple Butter Festival October 27-28 Come stir the pot!
We’re making apple butter the old fashioned way with a copper kettle over an open fire.
We’ll be serving fried biscuit with apple and pear butter!
Last weekend for BBQ!
Cherry-wood smoked ribs, pulled pork and chicken sandwiches, pear coleslaw, and cider baked beans.
Apple Cider Overboard at Packer Orchards and Bakery October 27-28 We love apple and pear too!
Many variety of heirloom fruit available.  Enjoy fresh-pressed cider, hot apple pie sundaes, apple cinnamon rolls, and more.  The bakery is over-flowing with the warm smell of freshly baked pie and cookies.  Fall in love with home made caramel apple ice cream.
Cider Days Celebration at Draper Girls Country Farm October 27-28 Join u for fresh non-pasteurized apple cider pressed here.  We are the only licensed non-pasteurized cider mill on the Fruit Loop.  Our country market offer cherry, pear, and grape-apple, and our renowned Apple Cider.  Enjoy a cup of hot cider and donuts, Grandma s famous cinnamon-sugar dried apples.
com or call 541-352-6625.
