XIAOTITLE Apple fruit nutrition fact and health benefits.
Apple fruit nutrition fact Delicious and crunchy apple fruit is one of the most popular fruit favored by health conscious, fitness freak who believe in “health is wealth.” This wonderful fruit packed with rich phyto-nutrients that in the true sense are indispensable for optimal health.
Apples in a store.
domestica) Apples are obtained from the medium sized tree belonging to the rosaceae family.
Scientific name: Malus domestica.
The apple tree is originated in the mineral rich mountain range of Kazakhstan, and is now being cultivated in many part of the world.
Apple fruit features oval or pear shape; and the outer skin ha different colors depending upon the cultivar type.
Internally, the juicy pulp ha off-white to cream in color and ha mix of mild sweet and tart taste.
The seed are inedible because of their bitter taste.
Several hundred variety of apple grown in the US and worldwide either for just eating or as a desert fruit to cooking or baking in many recipes.
Apples are low in calories; 100 g of fresh fruit slice provide only 50 calories.
The fruit are however, contain no saturated fat or cholesterol; but rich in dietary fiber, which helps, prevent absorption of dietary LDL cholesterol in the gut.
The dietary fiber also help protect the mucous membrane of the colon from exposure to toxic substance by binding to cancer causing chemical in the colon.
Apples are rich in antioxidant phyto-nutrients flavonoid and polyphenols.
The total measured anti-oxidant strength (ORAC value) of 100 g apple fruit is 5900 TE.
The important flavonoid in apple are quercetin, epicatechin, and procyanidin B2 . Apples are also good in tartaric acid that give tart flavor to them.
These compound help body protect from deleterious effect of free radicals.
In addition, apple fruit is a good source of B-complex vitamin such a riboflavin, thiamin, and pyridoxine (vitamin B-6).
Together these vitamin help a co-factors for enzyme in metabolism a well a in various synthetic function inside the body.
Apple also contains small amount of mineral like potassium, phosphorus, and calcium.
Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluid help controlling heart rate and blood pressure; thus counter the bad influence of sodium.
Selection and Storage Fresh apple are readily available in the store all around the season.
Choose fresh, bright, firm textured apple with rich flavor.
Avoid fruit with pressure mark over their surface a they indicate underlying mottled of pulp.
Fresh apple can be kept at room temperature for few day and stored in refrigerator for two to three weeks.
Wash them in clean running cold water before use to remove any surface dust and pesticide/fungicide residues.
Preparation and Serving tip Wash apple thoroughly in the running water to remove any surface dust, insecticide/fungicide sprays.
Remove the top end using paring knife and cut it into two equal halves.
Take out centrally placed small seeds.
Slice the fruit into desirable cube or pieces.
Apple fruit sections.
Eat apple fruit a they are with skin to get maximum health benefits.
Sliced apple turn brown (enzymatic brownish discoloration) on exposure to air due to conversion in iron form from ferrous oxide to ferric oxide . If you have to serve them sliced, rinse slice in water added with few drop of fresh lemon .
Cloudy apple juice is a good drink with dinner.
Apple fruit is also used in the preparation of fruit jam, pie, and fruit salad.
Safety profile Good yeild demand close attention and suprevision of apple crop.
According to the environmental-working group reports, apple fruit is one of the most heavily pesticide-contaminated produce.
The most common pesticide found on apple are organo-phosphorous and organo-chloride pesticide like Permethrin and DDT.
Therefore, it is recommended to wash the fruit thoroughly before use.
-Back to Fruit nutrition from Apple fruit .   Visit here for an impressive list of all variety of fruit with complete illustration of their nutrition fact and health benefits.
