XIAOTITLE Steve Jobs Biography - Facts, Birthday, Life Story - Biography.com.
Steve Jobs wa born February 24, 1955, to two University of Wisconsin graduate student who gave him up for adoption.
Smart but directionless, Jobs experimented with different pursuit before starting Apple Computers with Stephen Wozniak in the Jobs family garage.
Apple s revolutionary products, which include the iPod, iPhone and iPad, are now seen a dictating the evolution of modern technology.
I would trade all of my technology for an afternoon with Socrates.
With iPod, listening to music will never be the same again.
Steven Paul Jobs wa born on February 24, 1955, to Joanne Simpson and Abdulfattah John Jandali, two University of Wisconsin graduate student who gave their unnamed son up for adoption.
His father, Abdulfattah Jandali, wa a Syrian political science professor and his mother, Joanne Simpson, worked a a speech therapist.
Shortly after Steve wa placed for adoption, his biological parent married and had another child, Mona Simpson . It wa not until Jobs wa 27 that he wa able to uncover information on his biological parents.
As an infant, Steven wa adopted by Clara and Paul Jobs and named Steven Paul Jobs.
Clara worked a an accountant and Paul wa a Coast Guard veteran and machinist.
The family lived in Mountain View within California s Silicon Valley.
As a boy, Jobs and his father would work on electronics in the family garage.
Paul would show his son how to take apart and reconstruct electronics, a hobby which instilled confidence, tenacity, and mechanical prowess in young Jobs.
While Jobs ha always been an intelligent and innovative thinker, his youth wa riddled with frustration over formal schooling.
In elementary school he wa a prankster whose fourth grade teacher needed to bribe him to study.
Jobs tested so well, however, that administrator wanted to skip him ahead to high school—a proposal his parent declined.
After he did enroll in high school, Jobs spent his free time at Hewlett-Packard.
It wa there that he befriended computer club guru Steve Wozniak.
Wozniak wa a brilliant computer engineer, and the two developed great respect for one another.
After high school, Jobs enrolled at Reed College in Portland, Oregon.
Lacking direction, he dropped out of college after six month and spent the next 18 month dropping in on creative classes.
Jobs later recounted how one course in calligraphy developed his love of typography.
In 1974, Jobs took a position a a video game designer with Atari.
Several month later he left Atari to find spiritual enlightenment in India, traveling the continent and experimenting with psychedelic drugs.
In 1976, when Jobs wa just 21, he and Wozniak started Apple Computers.
The duo started in the Jobs family garage, and funded their entrepreneurial venture after Jobs sold his Volkswagen bus and Wozniak sold his beloved scientific calculator.
Jobs and Wozniak are credited with revolutionizing the computer industry by democratizing the technology and making the machine smaller, cheaper, intuitive, and accessible to everyday consumers.
The two conceived a series of user-friendly personal computer that they initially marketed for $666.66 each.
Their first model, the Apple I, earned them $774,000.
Three year after the release of their second model, the Apple II, sale increased 700 percent to $139 million dollars.
