XIAOTITLE Cashew Apple.
In: Fruits of warm climates.
Julia F. Morton, Miami, FL.
Cashew Apple Anacardium occidentale L.
This pseudofruit (or false fruit ) is a by-product of the cashew nut industry.
The cashew tree, Anacardium occidentale L., is called marañon in most Spanish-speaking countries, but merey in Venezuela; and caju or cajueiro in Portuguese.
It is generally bushy, low-branched and spreading; may reach 35 ft (10.6 m) in height and width.
Its leaves, mainly in terminal clusters, are oblong-oval or obovate, 4 to 8 in (10-20 cm) long and 2 to 4 in (5-10 cm) wide, and leathery.
Yellowish-pink, 5-petalled flower are borne in 6 to 10-in (15-25 cm) terminal panicle of mixed male, female and bisexual.
The true fruit of the tree is the cashew nut resembling a miniature boxing-glove; consisting of a double shell containing a caustic phenolic resin in honeycomb-like cells, enclosing the edible kidney-shaped kernel.
An interesting feature of the cashew is that the nut develops first and when it is full-grown but not yet ripe, it peduncle or, more technically, receptacle, fill out, becomes plump, fleshy, pear-shaped or rhomboid-to-ovate, 2 to 4 1/2 in (5-11.25 cm) in length, with waxy, yellow, red, or red-and-yellow skin and spongy, fibrous, very juicy, astringent, acid to subacid, yellow pulp.
Thus is formed the conspicuous, so-called cashew apple.
The cashew is native to and northeast Brazil and, in the 16th Century, Portuguese trader introduced it to Mozambique and coastal India, but only a a soil retainer to stop erosion on the coasts.
It flourished and ran wild and formed extensive forest in these location and on nearby islands, and eventually it also became dispersed in East Africa and throughout the tropical lowland of northern South America, Central America and the West Indies.
It ha been more or le casually planted in all warm region and a few fruiting specimen are found in experimental station and private garden in southern Florida.
The production and processing of cashew nut are complex and difficult problems.
Because of the great handicap of the toxic shell oil, Latin Americans and West Indians over the year have been most enthusiastic about the succulent cashew apple and have generally thrown the nut away or processed it crudely on a limited scale, except in Brazil, where there is a highly developed cashew nut processing industry, especially in Ceara.
In Mozambique, also, the apple reigned supreme for decades.
Attention then focused on the nut, but, in 1972, the industrial potential of the juice and sirup from the estimated 2 million ton of surplus cashew apple wa being investigated.
In India, on the other hand, vast tonnage of cashew apple have largely gone to waste while that country pioneered in the utilization and promotion of the nut.
The apple and nut fall together when both are ripe and, in commercial nut plantations, it is most practical to twist off the nut and leave the apple on the ground for later grazing by cattle or pigs.
But, where labor cost are very low, the apple may be gathered up and taken to market or processing plants.
In Goa, India, the apple are still trampled by foot to extract the juice for the locally famous distilled liquor, feni.
In Brazil, great heap are displayed by fruit vendors, and the juice is used a a fresh beverage and for wine.
In the field, the fruit are picked up and chewed for refreshment, the juice swallowed, and the fibrous residue discarded.
In the home and, in a limited way for commercial purposes, the cashew apple are preserved in sirup in glass jars.
Fresh apple are highly perishable.
Various specie of yeast and fungi cause spoilage after the first day at room temperature.
Food technologist in India have found that good condition can be maintained for 5 week at 32º to 35º F (0º-1.67º C) and relative humidity of 85% to 90%.
Inasmuch a the juice is astringent and somewhat acrid due to 35% tannin content (in the red: le in the yellow) and 3% of an oily substance, the fruit is pressure-steamed for 5 to 15 minute before candying or making into jam or chutney or extracting the juice for carbonated beverages, sirup or wine.
Efforts are made to retain a much a possible of the ascorbic acid.
Food technologist in Costa Rica recently worked out an improved process for producing the locally popular candied, sun-dried cashew apples.
Failure to remove the tannin from the juice may account for the nutritional deficiency in heavy imbiber of cashew apple wine in Mozambique, for tannin prevents the body s full assimilation of protein.
*Analyses made in Central America and Cuba.
Medicinal Uses: Cashew apple juice, without removal of tannin, is prescribed a a remedy for sore throat and chronic dysentery in Cuba and Brazil.
Fresh or distilled, it is a potent diuretic and is said to posse sudorific properties.
The brandy is applied a a liniment to relieve the pain of rheumatism and neuralgia.
