XIAOTITLE Apple Introduces Revolutionary New Laptop With No Keyboard | The Onion - America s Finest News Source | Onion News Network.
The MacBook Wheel let consumer accomplish everyday task like typing with just a few dozen spin and click of a wheel.
the Mac Book Wheel.
A revolutionary new laptop that doe away with the keyboard.
Tech Trends reporter, Jeff Tate ha more.
and hello to the future of laptop computers.
keyboard with a sleek, touch sensitive click wheel.
at the annual Mac Expo.
will make typing a thing of the past.
At Apple, our philosophy is create product that are simple to use.
And nothing s more simple than a single giant button.
Gilman showed me how the revolutionary new computer works.
Just open the Into Type Alphabet menu here.
Scroll to the letter you need, see?
and center click to select it.
Then click again to capitalize and repeat this process for each new letter.
It couldn t be simpler.
You can also let the predictive sentence technology complete the sentence for you.
so searching your hard drive will be a snap.
you have an alphabetical listing of every file on your hard drive.
Everything is just a few hundred click away.
Apple is calling the MacBook Wheel the most intuitive product ever designed.
they don t even realize they want yet.
many Apple user already have it on their wish list.
I ll buy almost anything if it s shiny and made by Apple.
and spent 45 minute typing an email to his friend.
I never really realized how much I hated keyboard until I saw this thing.
I like how the Email automatically says, sent from a MacBook Wheel.
That way people know you have one.
for the lowest end MacBook Wheel, it is an investment.
before needing to be recharged.
And the computer is virtually unbreakable unless dropped or hit.
But Apple isn t resting on it laurels.
due to it lack of screen hard driver wheel.
For the Onion News Network, I m Jeff Tate.
Thank you for that, Jeff.
where people use computer for actual work, and not just dicking around.
Moving on, police warn that the Sudoku killer will kill either 1,4 or 9 victim next.
