XIAOTITLE Apple Bottom Jeans And Boots With Fur | Clothing Jeans.
Apple Bottom Jeans And Boots With Fur Review on Apple Bottom Jeans By Reshma Rangaswamy - Ezinearticles Apple Bottom Jeans clothes were launched in 2003.
The clothing line targeted woman with well-endowed figure especially the rear side.
Curvy is their motto.
To elaborate, the Apple Bottom brand focus on bringing out lifestyle collection to celebrate the natural shape and silhouette of woman rather than trying to make them fit into shapeless or unbefitting clothes.
Nelly personally oversees every single item produced by the brand and ensures that whoever wear his clothes feel special because of the eye catching design and superb fit the brand promises.
The Apple Bottom Brand stand out with their signature logo of an apple on the rear pocket of the jeans.
The clothes fall in the category of hip hop and casually classy yet can be described a street wear.
The brand mix figure hugging material like Lycra with denim to create the snug look.
Apple-Bottom Jeans clothes line gained international popularity with their search campaign for a brand ambassador or model which wa aired on Channels.
The world sat up and noticed this unique brand and the collection wa a sell-out in two weeks.
In fact the brand feature in various hip hop songs.
The size on sale are also varied ranging from the petite to plus size.
The Apple-Bottom plus size clothes are a sell out among bigger woman because in spite of their larger silhouette they appear beautiful wearing these best fitting and trend setting clothes.
To top it, the price are also affordable making them accessible to a wider clientele.
Apple bottom jeans-stores are a shopper s paradise selling lifestyle products, infant wear, jewelry, handbags, accessory etc. They also have lingerie and swim wear line.
Apart from these the brand also endorses a fragrance.
They choose to be different by bringing out jean encrusted with rhinestones, bead and intricate detailing.
Apple bottom can also be ordered online and they have a same day shipment option.
They are also available on e bay with excellent deals.
Today, this brand which kick started it line solely with jean caters to the whim and fancy of fashionable woman all over the world launching classier and trendier design each season.
