XIAOTITLE Google to sell it own, small tablet computer - San Jose Mercury News.
SAN FRANCISCO—Google is unveiling a small tablet computer bearing it brand.
Called the Nexus Seven, the tablet will have a screen that measure 7 inch diagonally, smaller than the nearly 10 inch on Apple Inc. s popular iPad.
That mean it s more likely to challenge Amazon.com Inc. s Kindle Fire, which is also 7 inches.
The Nexus Seven will run the next version of Google Inc. s Android operating system, called Jelly Bean.
The tablet is also designed specifically for Google Play, the company s online store for movies, music, games, book and apps.
Google said Wednesday that Google Play will now offer movie for sale, rather than only rentals.
A Google expansion into the tablet market brings another imposing entrant into what is already a battle of tech heavyweights.
Last week, Microsoft Corp. announced it own tablet, Surface.
Expected to go on sale this fall, Surface will run on a revamped version of Windows and compete directly with the iPad.
Although the tablet carry the Google brand, the machine will be made by AsusTek Computer Inc. Google also recently expanded into the device-making business with it $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility, but the company ha stressed that it intends to continue to rely on Asus and other manufacturer that have embraced Android.
There are already other Android-powered tablet on the market, but none have proven nearly a popular a the iPad or Kindle Fire.
That ha raised worry at Google a more people rely on tablet to surf the Internet.
If Apple and Amazon establish themselves a the dominant tablet makers, they could set up their operating system in way that de-emphasize Google s Internet search engine and other services.
Apple develops it own system, while Amazon modifies Android for use in Kindles.
Apple already ha announced that the next version of the iPad operating system will abandon Google s digital map a the built-in navigation system.
That shift could cause neighborhood merchant to spend le money advertising on Google.
Earlier Wednesday, Google unveiled a new search tool to help you get the right information at the right time on your mobile device.
Called Google Now, the tool will be part of Jelly Bean, which will be available in mid-July.
Some devices, including the Galaxy Nexus, will get the upgrade automatically over the air.
With Google Now, if you say traffic, for example, it will look at your usual commute to work and show you alternative route if there s a lot of traffic.
It will tell you the score of your favorite sport team automatically, and it will keep you up to date on flight status if you are flying somewhere.
You ll have to activate Google Now to start using it.
Google Inc. said the Google Now feature will get smarter a you use it more.
The feature bear resemblance to the Siri virtual assistant on Apple s iPhone.
Jelly Bean will also come with the ability to share photo by tapping two phone together, using an emerging wireless technology called near-field communications.
Google said there are a million new Android device activated daily, up from 400,000 a year ago.
Google say there s particularly fast growth in emerging market such a Brazil and India.
Android is now the chief rival to the mobile software running Apple s iPhone and iPad.
