XIAOTITLE Plus-Size Jeans for Apple Body Types by Meieli Sawyer Detoni.
Apple body type need to choose jean wisely.
Not all jean will have the width at the midsection that you need for comfort along with slimmer leg and hips.
Plus-size jean can seem big all over, but with a little luck, you can wear these particular pair with ease.
Forget the rules.
Plus-size woman can pull off patch pockets, too.
Take advantage of your proportionally smaller hip and draw attention away from your midsection with these Sinatra Patch Pocket Jeans.
Find a top that comfortably cover the top of your waistband, like a blousy style with a lower waistline and an adjustable drawstring.
Photo (c) Alight.com Don t be fooled by low-waisted jeans.
They re simply not the answer for your shape.
High rise jean will contain your tummy without cutting into your stomach and can make you look pound lighter.
If high-waisted jean are really not your thing, try a pair like the Block Party Jeans with a longer top to camouflage them.
These capri will show off slimmer leg typical of the apple frame.
These capri have a higher rise and ample sized pocket for the plus-size frame.
You can find them up to size 16.
Photo (c) C.ENNE.V. These five-pocket jean will eliminate any tummy roll from popping up with the help of a special cut.
Gaps at the back are eliminated, and the front of the waistband won t cut into your stomach.
You can wear these summerweight jean comfortably all year round if you live in a warmer climate, or if you feel constrained by regular weight jeans.
Wear these Alex Capris to flaunt smaller ankle and look positively trim.
Try a slightly longer top to cover your midsection and a pair of low heel to make the most of your legs.
A higher, wider waistband on short like this look great on apple shapes, and any denim with a darker wash will help to minimize trouble areas.
Photo (c) C.ENNE.V. These jean are made especially for plus-size woman with an apple figure.
They have a higher rise, which mean extra weight found at the back and tummy will be covered.
The waistband is wider and more flattering for those of u who carry our weight around our middle.
