XIAOTITLE Apple Fruit - Information Facts about the Wonder Fruit Apple.
Most of u are familiar with the tale that originated from Switzerland of William Tell when an Apple wa placed on the head of his son and Tell wa ordered to split the apple with his arrow or lose his son.
Of course Tell succeeded in piercing the apple into two and saved his son.
Again we have heard of Adam s apple.
The story go that in the Garden of Eden, Adam ate a piece of the forbidden fruit that got stuck in his throat, and thus the term Adam s Apple.
An Adam s apple sometimes look like a small, rounded apple just under the skin in the front of the throat, usually seen in boys.
Now let s have some interesting fact about Apples and how they aid in good health.
The Greek and Roman mythology refer to apple a symbol of love and beauty but Apple Fruit contain vitamin like Vitamin C, Beta-Carotene, iron and potassium etc., The Vitamin C content may not be a good a Oranges but apple have very high mineral contents, pectins, malic acid which are good in normalizing the intestines.
Apple Fruit is good for treatment of anaemia, dysentery, heart disease, headache, eye disorders, kidney stone and promotes vigour and vitality.
Apple juice is good to overcome a liverish feeling, further, apple are unlikely to cause allergic reaction and are excellent mean of providing essential fluid to the body.
A popular saying about apple is that apple combine the best attribute of something old and something new.
A number of component in apples, have been found in study to lower blood cholesterol with a reduced risk of ischemic heart disease, stroke, prostrate cancer, type II diabetes and asthma.
A new study whose finding have been published in the Journal of Alzheimer s Disease is sure to bring cheer for people suffering from this strange disease.
This study suggests that eating and drinking apple and apple juice, in conjunction with a balanced diet, can protect the brain from the effect of oxidative stress and that we should eat such antioxidant-rich foods.
Apples are also good for treatment of the Acid reflux condition also called gerd (gastro esophageal reflux disease).
It is well said that we should have in our diet apart from vegetables, fresh coloured fruit like Yellow Apples, Green Apples, Red Apples etc., which are easily available considering that we have some of the best Apples coming from place like Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh etc., Of course imported apple like Washington apple and Australian apple are available at big departmental stores.
Green Apples - Good for strong bone and teeth, aid in vision, anti cancer properties.
Yellow Apples - Good for heart and eyes, immune system, reduce risk of some cancers.
Red Apples - Good for heart, Memory function, lower risk of some cancer and to maintain urinary tract health.
So let seize the opportunity to grab a much apple a we can in our diet for good health for the whole family.
A total of 94 user are reading this article.
